# Assignment 3 - John Whiting's Capstone Assessment

This senior design project is about demonstrating some form of expertise in Computer Science. It is the final checkpoint that demonstrates sufficient learning and understanding. In addition to demonstrating academic knowledge, it is also an excellent opportunity to fixate on a project determined by personal interest. The project's outcome has personal motivation and buy-in that does not usually come from other professional work. This motivation leads to a more expressive and personalized experience that expresses an individual's capabilities. Overall, it should yield an impassioned, high-quality outcome related to Computer Science.

The University of Cincinnati's Computer Science curriculum had many experiences that should prove fruitful for the project. Since creating a simulation-based video game involves a lot of mathematical and algorithmic understanding, classes like Linear Algebra (MATH-2076), Discrete Structures (CS-2071), and D & A Algorithms (CS-4071) significantly help this process. Additionally, the project requires programming in a Python-like language, so Computer Science 1 (CS-1021C) and Python Programming (CS-2011) will help immensely. Outside of technical considerations, Intermediate Composition (ENGL-2089) and Technical/Scientific Writing (ENGL-4092) were a part of the curriculum that will be beneficial when it comes to writing essays and documentation. Finally, when it comes to planning the project, the experiences in ENED 1 (ENED-1100), ENED 2 (ENED-1120), and Software Engineering (EECE-3093C) will help immensely. The cooperative education program is also highly beneficial to this project.

For all four of my cooperative education experiences, I worked at Kinetic Vision as a Software Development COOP, and in between COOP semesters, I worked part-time as well. The amount of experience I have gained from Kinetic Vision alone will help me succeed on the project. From a non-technical perspective, Kinetic Vision improved my communication skills through proper code/project documentation, interpersonal discussions, and professional emails to clients. My writing and communication skills will be critical for meetings with my teammates, presenting the project at the end of the year, documenting code, and writing essays. Also, I have gained experience in requirements gathering, time estimation, and other software development lifecycle skills from a project management perspective by performing relevant tasks on many projects. That will be useful for making the project run smoothly and ensuring that everything can be done within an appropriate amount of time. From a technical perspective, working at Kinetic Vision has improved my code quality, consistency, and cleanliness, in addition to my UI/UX, CI/CD, DevOps, Azure Cloud, and general technical knowledge. The technical experience will help design and create the game following common development standards.

Several factors motivated me to participate in this project, and I have done a lot of preliminary planning to make the project more successful. I wanted to do something out of my comfort zone, and video game development perfectly fills that role. I have tried making a video game but have yet to get far. I'm most comfortable in full-stack web development since this is where I have the most professional experience. Aside from doing something new, I typically strive to make educational tools for people. In the past, I have participated in two UC hackathons, and for both of them, I submitted my project to the "Education" track. The project that we are doing fits that criteria very nicely. The last motivation for this project is that I wanted to do something that everyday people could use, and it wasn't limited to any specialized group. Since the game will be accessible to everyone with a very general audience, it is the perfect candidate for this goal. To prepare for success, I have been studying the relevant biology, planning the technical stack, and gaining general game development experience inside the Godot Engine. All of this will be important later in making the whole game.

Regarding the project's completion, several goals would evaluate its success. The first goal would be to have a functional game that other individuals can play. If it can start up and play testers have completed the game, then this is a success for the goal. Another goal that can be used to evaluate the project is its educational value. If it can describe biological concepts in a way that any pre-teenaged or teenaged student can understand the material without being bored, then this would be another goal. That could be measured through play-testing and hearing the results of the play-testing. One last goal would be to have an overall polish of the game. If all the loose ends are snipped and the game has a good "feel" to it, then this would be a success. These goals show that the project has a professional appearance and demonstrates a successful higher education.
