# Alex Dediu Capstone Assessment

The project that my group and I are working on is an educational video game with the goal to teach players about genetics and biology. Puzzles and level based mini games will introduce players to various concepts through a fun and engaging manner. This project will challenge us creatively, both with code and game design. We must leverage our programming skills to develop advanced functionality within our game. Personally, this project will introduce me to game development and using game engines as I am completely new to this. Our main motivation for this project is to create something that can make a real-world difference, and to also have fun and learn while working on it.

Game development is not something that is traditionally taught in a computer science curriculum, and I also do not have any experience with the creative side of things. However, the courses I have taken will allow me to pick up game development quickly. For example, linear algebra is used quite extensively in game development, and that is a class I did well in. I have also taken Learning Probabilistic Models and Machine Learning, which are heavy on linear algebra. We will be using GDScript, a language developed for Godot Engine, which is like Python. Python has been used in a few of my classes. Also, I have learned several different languages through my courses with no issues, so I know that learning GDScript will not be a challenge for me. At times, I had to teach myself or follow tutorials for technologies and languages we used in classes. I will need to do the same for Godot and GDScript, and my experience with that while taking classes will help. Of course, traditional CS courses, such as Discrete Structures, Design and Analysis of Algorithms, and Software Engineering, have all developed a solid foundation that will be invaluable to the development of our game.

I have similar things to say about my co-op rotations. I did not work in game development in any of my co-ops. However, it is the soft skills that I developed while working that will be most beneficial to this project. Over the summer, I worked at Siemens as a software developer on Teamcenter Active Workspace, a web-based project lifecycle management application. My job was to develop prototype changes to one of their modules with the goal of improving load times and client interactivity. Through this project, I had to work with my supervisor to understand the task and all the requirements for success. I also spent time working with the development team to discuss how to integrate my work efficiently and correctly into their codebase. Working on a software development team for a product at Siemens has given me a solid foundation to be a competent and determined developer for our project.

Team motivation is a key factor in the success of our project, and my team and I are all very motivated to be working on this game together. David originally produced the idea, and we all seemed excited about creating a game. I am motivated by learning new things, and our game development project is certainly new for me. I am also excited to be working on a project that can genuinely impact other people, and we hope that we can get the project to a point where we can distribute it. Another source of motivation I have is the motivation and passion of the rest of my team. David is passionate about biology, which is why we chose that as a topic, and everyone is passionate about video games and creating our own game. Also, I have had some bad team project experiences in my college career, so I am truly looking forward to working on a project where everyone on the team is extremely motivated and ready to put in effort to complete a quality project.

Some preliminary solutions for building our game include taking inspiration from other puzzle or survival games and adding educational elements into these games. We can also develop multiple mini games that cover certain areas of educational content in a different format to keep a user engaged. There are two important goals for our game: it must be educational, and it must be fun. A straightforward way to measure our progress towards these goals is to have our game play tested, preferably by our target audience. The fun aspect of the game can be measured by a survey given to players, and the educational portion can be evaluated by having players take pre and posttests to determine if they learn anything. Evaluating my personal contributions may be challenging, but one thing I hope to do is develop a mini game or other feature on my own. If it is playable and meets the earlier mentioned goals, then I would be satisfied. One interesting thing to consider with our project is that there is no end. We can always add more features, levels, or mini games. I know that as a team we will develop a project that we are proud of and surpasses our goals.
